When the summer fields are mown,
The day is ending,
Sweet the memory is to me
From the river's plashy bank,
When the warm sun, that brings
I shot an arrow into the air,
This is the Arsenal. From floor to ceiling,
Until we meet again! That is the meaning
Thou comest, Autumn, heralded by the rain,
With what a glory comes and goes the year!
It is autumn; not without,
Round Autumn's mouldering urn
A fleet with flags arrayed
Cold, cold is the north wind and rude is the blast
Dead he lay among his books!
Becalmed upon the sea of Thought,
I have read, in some old, marvellous tale,
In the market-place of Bruges stands the belfry old and brown;
I am poor and old and blind;
What say the Bells of San Blas
Black shadows fall
Blind Bartimeus at the gates
St. Botolph's Town! Hither across the plains
I stood on the bridge at midnight,
Once upon Iceland's solitary strand
The brooklet came from the mountain,
All are architects of Fate,
"Build me straight, O worthy Master!
On sunny slope and beechen swell,
Richard Henry Dana
Lake of Como
In the ancient town of Bruges,
A gentle boy, with soft and silken locks,
How much of my young heart, O Spain,
This song of mine
I have a vague remembrance
Is it so far from thee
From the outskirts of the town
Garlands upon his grave
An old man in a lodge within a park;
Come to me, O ye children!
What is this I read in history,
Between the dark and the daylight,
Sweet chimes! that in the loneliness of night
I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Just above yon sandy bar,
The panting City cried to the Sea,
In the Old Colony days, in Plymouth the land of the Pilgrims,
Nothing was heard in the room but the hurrying pen of the
So the strong will prevailed, and Alden went on his errand,
Into the open air John Alden, perplexed and bewildered,
Just in the gray of the dawn, as the mists uprose from the
Thus for a while he stood, and mused by the shore of the ocean,
Meanwhile the stalwart Miles Standish was marching steadily
Month after month passed away, and in Autumn the ships of the
Forth from the curtain of clouds, from the tent of purple and
In the long, sleepless watches of the night,
At anchor in Hampton Roads we lay,
Solemnly, mournfully,
Tuscan, that wanderest through the realms of gloom,
The day is done, and the darkness
O gift of God! O perfect day:
A wind came up out of the sea,
In broad daylight, and at noon,
Sleep, comrades, sleep and rest
As one who, walking in the twilight gloom,
With favoring winds, o'er sunlit seas,
Sweet as the tender fragrance that survives,
Nine sisters, beautiful in form and face,
By yon still river, where the wave
A Leaf from King Alfred's Orosius
Inscription for an Antique Pitcher
Simon Danz has come home again,
Dark is the morning with mist; in the narrow mouth of the harbor
Peradventure of old, some bard in Ionian Islands,
Thou ancient oak! whose myriad leaves are loud
Once the Emperor Charles of Spain,
On St. Bavon's tower, commanding
Under Mount Etna he lies,
The rising moon has hid the stars;
Have I dreamed? or was it real,
This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks,
Pleasantly rose next morn the sun on the village of Grand-Pré.
Four times the sun had risen and set; and now on the fifth day
In that delightful land which is washed by the Delaware's waters,
Many a weary year had passed since the burning of Grand-Pré,
It was the month of May. Far down the Beautiful River,
Near to the bank of the river, o'ershadowed by oaks, from whose branches
Far in the West there lies a desert land, where the mountains
In the Acadian land, on the shores of the Basin of Minas,
Now had the season returned, when the nights grow colder and
Bent like a laboring oar, that toils in the surf of the ocean,
Lo! in the painted oriel of the West,
The shades of night were falling fast,
O sweet illusions of Song,
It was fifty years ago
The hour was late; the fire burned low,
"Nunc plaudite!" the Student cried,
These are the tales those merry guests
We sat within the farm-house old,
Spake full well, in language quaint and olden,
When the hours of Day are numbered,
Four by the clock! and yet not day;
Four limpid lakes,--four Naiades
A photograph
Awake! arise! the hour is late!
October 22, 1838.
Am I a king, that I should call my own
Torrent of light and river of the air,
By his evening fire the artist
This is the place. Stand still, my steed,
Filled is Life's goblet to the brim;
I like that ancient Saxon phrase, which calls
Leafless are the trees; their purple branches
She dwells by Great Kenhawa's side,
The lights are out, and gone are all the guests
One day, Haroun Al Raschid read
It is the Harvest Moon! On gilded vanes
Each heart has its haunted chamber,
All houses wherein men have lived and died
How beautiful it was, that one bright day
What phantom is this that appears
Still through Egypt's desert places
Warm and still is the summer night,
The holiest of all holidays are those
Christ to the young man said: "Yet one thing more;
When the dying flame of day
I heard the trailing garments of the Night
Gaddi mi fece; il Ponte Vecchio sono;
In the village churchyard she lies,
Here lies the gentle humorist, who died
When the summer harvest was gathered in,
O traveller, stay thy weary feet;
"Yes, well your story pleads the cause
"I thought before your tale began,"
"What was the end? I am ashamed
When the long murmur of applause
Well pleased the audience heard the tale.
All praised the Legend more or less;
"O Edrehi, forbear to-night
Well pleased all listened to the tale,
Thus ran the Student's pleasant rhyme
"A pleasant and a winsome tale,"
"Signor Luigi," said the Jew,
"Now that is after my own heart,"
Touched by the pathos of these rhymes,
When the long murmur of applause
The Landlord ended thus his tale,
Soon as the story reached its end,
He ended: and a kind of spell
And then the blue-eyed Norseman told
A strain of music closed the tale,
Thus closed the tale of guilt and gloom,
I thought this Pen would arise
No hay pajaros en los nidos de antano.
Night rests in beauty on Mont Alto.
They made the warrior's grave beside
How strange it seems! These Hebrews in their graves,
How cold are thy baths, Apollo!
Turn, turn, my wheel! Turn round and round
The young Endymion sleeps Endymion's sleep;
Viswamitra the Magician,
Witlaf, a king of the Saxons,
Ye voices, that arose
Saint Augustine! well hast thou said,
Listen, my children, and you shall hear
It was Sir Christopher Gardiner,
Mounted on Kyrat strong and fleet,
The night is come, but not too soon;
The rocky ledge runs far into the sea,
When I compare
There is a love that cannot die! -
Most beautiful, most gentle! Yet how lost
TRAVELLER
MAIDEN.
Maiden! with the meek, brown eyes,
HEPHAESTUS (standing before the statue of Pandora.)
HERMES (putting on his sandals.)
PROMETHEUS.
HERMES (returning to Olympus.)
EPIMETHEUS.
EPIMETHEUS.
PANDORA.
EPIMETHEUS.
After so long an absence
Oft I remember those whom I have known
Half of my life is gone, and I have let
Yes, the Year is growing old,
I pace the sounding sea-beach and behold
Terra di lavoro
Oh that a Song would sing itself to me
As a pale phantom with a lamp
"O Caesar, we who are about to die
At Stralsund, by the Baltic Sea,
The jolly skipper paused awhile,
The cabin windows have grown blank
And now along the horizon's edge
Svend Dyring he rideth adown the glade;
I am the God Thor,
And King Olaf heard the cry,
"Thora of Rimol! hide me! hide me!
Queen Sigrid the Haughty sat proud and aloft
Now from all King Olaf's farms
The guests were loud, the ale was strong,
Olaf the King, one summer morn,
On King Olaf's bridal night
Short of stature, large of limb,
"All the old gods are dead,
Loud the anngy wind was wailing
At Drontheim, Olaf the King
Thorberg Skafting, master-builder,
Safe at anchor in Drontheim bay
A little bird in the air
Northward over Drontheim,
Loudly the sailors cheered
On the gray sea-sands
"Strike the sails!" King Olaf said;
It was Einar Tamberskelver
All day has the battle raged,
In the convent of Drontheim,
I sat by my window one night,
Sadly as some old mediaeval knight
Like two cathedral towers these stately pines
Often I think of the beautiful town
"A soldier of the Union mustered out,"