There are sleeping dreams and waking dreams;
I have no wit, no words, no tears;
It's a year almost that I have not seen her:
Croak, croak, croak,
My heart is like a singing bird
Through the vales to my love!
I will accept thy will to do and be,
Love brought Me down; and cannot love make thee
What can lambkins do
In the bleak mid-winter
A fool I was to sleep at noon,
Why were you born when the snow was falling?
Once in a dream (for once I dreamed of you)
The year stood at its equinox
The soonest mended, nothing said;
A stage below, in gay accord,
Woman was made for man's delight,
A night was near, a day was near;
Never on this side of the grave again,
Inner not outer, without gnash of teeth
Sonnets are full of love, and this my tome
I looked for that which is not, nor can be,
Strike the bells wantonly,
She gave up beauty in her tender youth,
Does that lamp still burn in my Father's house,
Jess and Jill are pretty girls,
At morn I plucked a rose and gave it Thee,
I, a princess, king-descended, decked with jewels, gilded, drest,
A smile because the nights are short!
While we slumber and sleep,
Live all thy sweet life thro',
I said of laughter: it is vain.
Three sang of love together: one with lips
A robin said: The Spring will never come,
On the wind of January
This Advent moon shines cold and clear,
Why should I call Thee Lord, Who art my God?
The curtains were half drawn, the floor was swept
As eager homebound traveller to the goal,
They are flocking from the East
I, All-Creation, sing my song of praise
It is over. What is over?
Oh, where are you going with your love-locks flowing
Life flows down to death; we cannot bind
I plucked pink blossoms from mine apple-tree
Spring bursts to-day,
Love, strong as Death, is dead.
In my Autumn garden I was fain
Awake or sleeping (for I know not which)
If I might see another Spring
When I was dead, my spirit turned
Many have sung of love a root of bane:
I dwell alone - I dwell alone, alone,
Keep love for youth, and violets for the spring:
While roses are so red,
While roses are so red,
Before the paling of the stars,
Man rising to the doom that shall not err,
Shall Christ hang on the Cross, and we not look?
A lowly hill which overlooks a flat,
Did any bird come flying
The sunrise wakes the lark to sing,
Summer is gone with all its roses,
If you'll busk you as a bride
Oh fair Milly Brandon, a young maid, a fair maid!
A dancing Bear grotesque and funny
A million buds are born that never blow,
Why does the sea moan evermore?
Here where I dwell I waste to skin and bone;
I wish you were a pleasant wren,
Oh happy happy land!
Whoso hears a chiming for Christmas at the nighest,
Oh, for the time gone by, when thought of Christ
I am pale with sick desire,
As rivers seek the sea,
Consider
Flowers preach to us if we will hear:
I was a cottage maiden
A dream that waketh,
Oh why is heaven built so far,
Ah! changed and cold, how changed and very cold,
Hope new born one pleasant morn
Chide not; let me breathe a little,
The Spring spreads one green lap of flowers
My sun has set, I dwell
I love and love not: Lord, it breaks my heart
Where sunless rivers weep
Young Love lies sleeping
There is nothing more that they can do
Come to me in the silence of the night;
She came among us from the South
While I sit at the door
Many a flower hath perfume for its dower,
A blue-eyed phantom far before
The splendor of the kindling day,
Wearied of sinning, wearied of repentance,
Such a hubbub in the nests,
The first was like a dream through summer heat,
Go from me, summer friends, and tarry not:
Morning and evening
The buttercup is like a golden cup,
There is silence that saith, "Ah me!"
O happy rose-bud blooming
Am I a stone and not a sheep
I loved my love from green of Spring
Should one of us remember,
I did not chide him, though I knew
Because one loves you, Helen Grey,
There's no replying
O Christ, the Vine with living Fruit,
Weary and weak, - accept my weariness;
I am pale with sick desire,
If he would come to-day, to-day, to-day,
If I might only love my God and die!
I have done I know not what, - what have I done?
A hundred, a thousand to one; even so;
I sat beneath a willow tree,
Dear Lord, let me recount to Thee
To come back from the sweet South, to the North
Jessie, Jessie Cameron,
Jesus, do I love Thee?
Johnny had a golden head
Downstairs I laugh, I sport and jest with all;
You must not call me Maggie, you must not call me Dear,
Where were you last night? I watched at the gate;
Before the mountains were brought forth, before
Life is not sweet. One day it will be sweet
Oh, sad thy lot before I came,
Thou who didst hang upon a barren tree,
I had a love in soft south land,
I have not sought Thee, I have not found Thee,
Love that is dead and buried, yesterday
Beautiful, tender, wasting away for sorrow;
You must not call me Maggie, you must not call me Dear,
Maiden May sat in her bower,
Long ago and long ago,
Not for me marring or making,
We meet in joy, though we part in sorrow;
Our Master lies asleep and is at rest;
Out of the church she followed them
I cannot tell you how it was;
Poor the pleasure
I nursed it in my bosom while it lived,
The hope I dreamed of was a dream,
The mystery of Life, the mystery
Come back to me, who wait and watch for you: -
Oh what is that country
Hear now a curious dream I dreamed last night
Two days ago with dancing glancing hair,
I tell my secret? No indeed, not I:
I never said I loved you, John:
Now did you mark a falcon,
Lord, I am waiting, weeping, watching for Thee:
New Year met me somewhat sad:
Once in a dream (for once I dreamed of you)
I said: This is a beautiful fresh rose.
Vanity of vanities, the Preacher saith,
I will tell you when they met:
Oh tell me once and tell me twice
Unmindful of the roses,
Once in a dream I saw the flowers
Golden-winged, silver-winged,
All things that pass
A boat amid the ripples, drifting, rocking,
The flowers that bloom in sun and shade
Remember me when I am gone away,
She sat alway thro' the long day
O Earth, lie heavily upon her eyes;
From depth to height, from height to loftier height,
It's oh in Paradise that I fain would be,
Oh the cheerful Budding-time!
Shall I forget on this side of the grave?
The door was shut. I looked between
Who told my mother of my shame,
Like flowers sequestered from the sun
Sound the deep waters:
I have desired, and I have been desired;
Somewhere or other there must surely be
Oh roses for the flush of youth,
Two doves upon the selfsame branch,
She sat and sang alway
When I am dead, my dearest,
Oh what comes over the sea,
A song in a cornfield
Some are laughing, some are weeping;
Frost-locked all the winter,
Gone were but the Winter,
Winter is cold-hearted
To think that this meaningless thing was ever a rose
The sweetest blossoms die.
I watched a rosebud very long
Thou whom I love, for whom I died,
Lovely Spring,
Underneath the growing grass,
There's blood between us, love, my love,
Is this the Face that thrills with awe
I wonder if the sap is stirring yet,
There's a footstep coming: look out and see,
O love, love, hold me fast,
Where are the songs I used to know,
The upland flocks grew starved and thinned:
I bore with thee long weary days and nights,
Give me the lowest place: not that I dare
Like flowers sequestered from the sun
Who calleth? - Thy Father calleth,
Cold the day and cold the drifted snow,
Once I thought to sit so high
Vanity of vanities, the Preacher saith,
Oh whence do you come, my dear friend, to me,
Till all sweet gums and juices flow,
How comes it, Flora, that, whenever we
The irresponsive silence of the land,
Sweet, thou art pale.
By day she woos me, soft, exceeding fair:
Wintry boughs against a wintry sky;
I would not if I could undo my past,
A cup for hope!' she said,
All her corn-fields rippled in the sunshine,
Long have I longed, till I am tired
She sitteth still who used to dance,
Arise, depart, for this is not your rest.
Because you never yet have loved me, dear,
I took my heart in my hand
Oh, pleasant eventide!
We met, hand to hand,